Add behaviors (#149)
signalfx/gdi-specification: specification/behaviors.md

# Behaviors

## Profiling

**Status**: [Experimental](../README.md#versioning-and-status-of-the-specification)

This document describes the specific behavior and conventions for Splunk
instrumentation libraries that contain profiling features.

### Call Stack Sampling

An instrumentation library that has profiling capabilities MUST be able to

> sample call stacks at a fixed interval. This default interval MUST default to 1

Reviewer: java was changed to use 10 seconds

> sample call stacks at a fixed interval. This default interval MUST default to 1
> second.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sample call stacks at a fixed interval. This default interval MUST default to 10
seconds.
```

> When a language runtime supports threading, stacks MUST be sampled across all

Reviewer 3: unless we mention here that there is an exception described below in "filtering", we have a contradiction. "MUST be sampled across all threads" and "some threads SHOULD NOT be sampled"

Reviewer 2: This is a fair point, but I see the filtering as happening downstream of the sampling. The actual sampling mechanism may be more difficult to control (such as in the case of Java, where we can't control which threads JFR reports on). I don't think it's a contradiction.

process threads. The samples for all threads SHOULD be taken instantaneously
and, in the event that this is not feasible, MUST be taken as close together as
possible. If the samples are taken consecutively, then the profiler MUST use a
consistent ordering strategy (such as thread name or ID) when sampling all
threads.

### Call Stack Filtering

Various runtimes MAY contain internal and other threads that are undesirable to
include for profiling. This could include threads that are internal to runtime
behavior or instrumentation library internal workings. The choice of which
threads are undesirable is implementation specific and not defined.

The profiler SHOULD NOT collect call stacks from undesirable threads. If this
is not possible, the profiler SHOULD filter these out afterward and omit these
call stacks from ingest.

### Call Stack Span Association

When a call stack is sampled during the execution of a span scope, the profiler
MUST be able to associate the call stack to the span. This association SHOULD

> happen as close to the sampling point as feasible, but MAY occur later in a

Reviewer 3: Why this closeness is important?

Reviewer 2: It's probably really not that important. I think when I wrote this originally I thought that it would be helpful to encourage instrumentation to get the work done up front (eg. "Look it up and associate right when you get the stack trace, rather than deferring it")...but it's probably overspec'd tbh.

Our current JFR approach violates this `SHOULD` anyway.

> processing pipeline.

Reviewer 3: Inside the process or outside?

Reviewer 2: Not currently spec'd. Java is currently in process.
